../help/introduction.html What is sustainability and why is it important? There are many definitions of sustainability each supporting various principals and concepts. Essentially, however, sustainability can be described as 1) a set of goals, and 2) practices and behavior that support such goals. As a set of goals sustainability describes desired conditions of the environment and the ability of humans to receive benefits directly and indirectly from it, in the present as well as in the future. As practices and behaviors, sustainability describes human actions that support and enhance the human well-being derived through interaction with the environment, and which support the ability of human society to interact with the environment in ways that discourage reduced benefits. Sustainability is important because the choices and actions of today affect everything in the future. Sound decisions at present may prevent undesirable outcomes in the future. Bioenergy Basics: Bioenergy is a renewable energy source which is produced by living organsims. The biomass from these organisms can either be burned directly for energy, or converted into a fuel, such as biodiesel or ethanol. This game is meant to reflect the potential for production focused of agricultural crops intended for ethanol production. Currently, ethanol is produced in the US by fermenting and distilling the sugars found in corn kernels. We have included in this game an alternative fuel source in the form of a perennial switchgrass. Essentially, producing ethanol from either source is the same; the difference is that the sugars are more readily available in the corn kernels, whereas additional processing is necessary to access the sugars from cellulosic sources (such as switchgrass). This process is not currently implemented at an industrial scale, but much work is being done to get to that point. Cellulose is an important structural component of the cell walls of green plants, and is therefore available from any plant. Bioenergy Crops of the Future: Corn vs. Switchgrass
