../help/use.html Overview: Fields of Fuel is being developed as a classroom instructional tool to teach students about the complexity of managing sustainable bioenergy cropping systems. Through trials with various high school and undergraduate classes, we have found that the game is very effective at engaging students in thoughtful discussion about a range of ecological-economic interactions in agricultural systems and for helping students consider the multiple dimensions of sustainability. The presentation and interaction with these elements in a game environment encourages students to apply evidence-based reasoning techniques to uncover the dynamics of the system in order to be successful. Through their experimentation they uncover system dynamics and devise strategies for success. We typically then engage the students periodically throughout gameplay about these dynamics and their choices as a way to promote discussion. Requirements: Grade levels: high school - undergraduate (9-16), Subject areas: environmental studies, ecology, environmental science, economics, agriculture, natural resources, 50-90 minute time period, Computers:
One for every two students (play in pairs), internet access, Modern browsers, projector and screen (recommended). Game learning goals: The game is designed to provide an environment in which players spend time interacting with the simulation on their own, and then discuss their observations in a (facilitated) forum to collaboratively figure out the dynamics of the simulated system. Some of the potential concepts and topics that can be addressed in this way include: Understanding the basic dimensions of sustainable biofuel production, Understanding the general ecological and economic mechanisms of agricultural systems, Identifing and recognizing the differences between long and short-term trends and related management decisions, Understanding how individual farmer management decisions affect local economic and ecological outcomes, Understanding how global environmental and economic effects emerge from individual decisions. Depending on the game options that are enabled, the game addresses a host of National and State Standards. Specifically the game is consistent with the Next Generation Science Standards. It addresses the following Cross Cutting Concepts and Scientific Practices. Cross-cutting concepts: Patterns, Cause and effect: Mechanism and explanation, Systems and system models. Scientific Practices: Asking questions, Developing and using models, Analyzing and interpreting data, Constructing explanations, Engaging in argument from evidence. Suggested flow of instruction: Based upon our experiences using the game with a variety of student audiences, we present some suggestions for facilitating game play, and directing the discussion in order to reach the learning goals as described above. Pre-game: Prior to playing the game, we have found it is best to prepare students with some basic information and discussion about the general concept of biofuels production and sustainability. Some of this information can be found on our Bioenergy Sustainability page. We've found that it is useful to outline the basic workings of the system (you grow crops, they are then sold and turned into energy) but leave out some of the detail about specific relationships between their decisions and outcomes (i.e. which crops are good for water quality). This provides an opportunity for them to experiment with the system and figure out these relationships by reasoning about the information they are provided. It is also import beforehand to go over the basic mechanisms of how to play the game; what your role is, how it is structured into turn-based years, how to interact with the environment, and how the scoring works. Again, it is best not to go into too much detail about the scoring, as you don't want to completely expose the mechanisms; you want the groups to uncover them using evidence-based reasoning approaches. Just before playing, it is important to define what the objective is. This can shift depending on the objective of the lesson plan, but typically will be to maximize one of the scored categories of environment, energy, economy, or the composite sustainability score. It can also be useful to have groups formulate a strategy just before beginning the game, potentially even writing it out. This ensures that they have a least a starting hypothesis which they can then evaluate using feedback from the game. The iterative process of forming and assessing these hypotheses based on feedback from their actions forms an integral part of the evidence-based reasoning approach. In-game: During gameplay, we've found it's been useful to stop every few rounds, and inquire individual groups what their strategy is, if it is working, and what they plan to do next. You can try some of the following questions to spark discussion: What did you plant? Why did you plant it? Has anything surprising to you? What do you notice about your score compared to other groups? What evidence are you using to make claims about what is more or less sustainable? Who is changing what they are planting and/or management decisions and who is keeping things the same? And why? What information are you using to make those decisions? What do you think is happening to produce the trends you are seeing in your graphs? Can you explain any dips or peaks? How would you change your strategy to make it more sustainable? Is this enough information to help you decide? How do you evaluate if this is a long term sustainable management decision? Using the scoreboard view on the projector, we can pick out different groups based on their success in a particular category, and examine why (for instance) one group has a high environmental score, and how their strategy and actions compare to a different group with a lower environmental score. This encourages the players to examine their available evidence to unpack the mechanisms behind the results they are seeing. 
Post-game: After playing, it is useful to have a final discussion examining the relative performance of different groups, and why their strategies were or were not successful. Future development: We are currently working to develop a collaborative online forum where teachers can share their experiences, ideas, and even curriculum. Contributions of individual teachers can help to enrich the game's potential. Working on curriculum for specific classes and topics: Potential uses to target/highlight these concepts and topics: Sustainability, Sustainable agriculture, Biodiversity, Soil ecology, Renewable energy, Bioenergy, Perennial, Annual, Systems modeling, Systems and scale, Supply and demand, Water quality, Nutrient Run-off.