../help/gameplay.html Basics: Play in pairs: We recommend playing in pairs to generate better discussion about strategy and game dynamics. Set Goal: Play to maximize either overall sustainability, income, energy production or environmental score. We find that playing initially to maximize income helps to engage players and reveal some fundamental tradeoffs between the economic and environmental objectives. Duration: You can play for as long as you like, but we find at least 10 years is required to reveal some interesting long-term trends. Pick a game endpoint before starting to help players hone their initial strategy. Playing for 10 years with a group of 15 players typically takes 20-30 minutes. Player Screen Elements: The player screen can be broken into two sections: the left side represents the player's fields and is where the players implement all of their actions, while the right side is a series of accordion style windows which players use to get feedback on their performance. Left side: Round indicator / ready bar: this tells you where in the planting/harvesting cycle the game is and what you need to do next. Click the check box when ready to move to next stage. Fields: graphics on fields indicate crop selection and growth/harvest state. Field-level info "+": click this "+" button to display soil fertility and yield history on your fields. Soil fertility is color coded from bright green (high fertility) to dark red (low fertility). The crop yield history is represented by a yield vs. year graph. Right side: Accordion headers: each bar displays your overall rank and score in each area (sustainability, economy, energy, environment). Accordion content: maximize or minimize the bars to see a detailed history of your farm's sustainability, economy, energy and environment scores. Bug report: click this inconspicuous square button to report bugs in the game and other feedback. Log: not functional as of 6/3/13. Turn Procedure: Note: The game is round-based. Each player must complete each step of the round (planting, management, harvesting) before the game moves forward and players get feedback. However, if required, the moderator can manually move the game to the next stage without all players being ready. Planting: Click the planting icon at the bottom left-hand corner of each field. Then click on one of the 3 crop options (perennial grass, corn, cover crop) to plant. When you are done planting, click the "Done Planting" box at the top left of your window. Management: (Optional) Players now have the option to choose additional management options to customize their strategies. Management strategies can reflect the use of additional fertilizers and tillage practices. By default these are both off, but clicking on the icons will remove the no symbol and enact the practice. Harvesting: Once everyone has finished planting and managing crops (optional), you are ready to harvest and see your crops and see your scores. Click the "Harvest" icon to show that you are ready to move to this stage. When everyone has clicked this icon, you will get your yearly scores and updated overall scores. Round Wrap-up: Following the harvest, a round wrap up window appears with a summary of the impact of the previous turn's decisions. This window will reflect the change in the player's short term performance by showing the current year's score in each of the four categories, the score from the previous year, and an up or down arrow indicating the direction of change from the previous year. In addition, the rank of the player's long-term average score in each category is also shown.